# redifined-medicine-for-cancer
The first important goal of classifying clinically actionable genetic mutations is to reduce and minimize the manual efforts put in by Clinical pathologists in identifying and crossreferencing the gene class types from the research literature. 
A gene is a group of nucleotides found in either DNA or RNA that codes for the production of a gene product, such as RNA or protein. Genetic Variations are differences in a person's DNA between them. Gene recombination and mutation are two of the many processes that cause genetic diversity. The nucleotide sequence of an organism's genome can change, which is known as a mutation. A cancer tumour that has been sequenced may have thousands of genetic mutations. Due to the manual nature of the process, interpreting genetic alterations takes a lot of time. 
Due to the increasing variability and complexity of cancer, treatment choices, and patient demographics, accurately predicting survival in cancer patients remains difficult. To help in prognostication and decision-making, doctors now use data gathered at the bedside in consultations, medical records, or purpose-built cancer registries.
There may be thousands of genetic alterations in a cancer tumour. The objective is to separate benign mutations from those that cause tumour development.
The creation of targeted treatments that are particular to the genetic changes present in a patient's tumour has been made possible by the arrival of next-generation sequencing technology. This has allowed for a better knowledge of the genomic and molecular aspects of cancer. The use of gene sequencing in medicine has quickly expanded from the realm of research. In recent years, a lot of studies have been focused on genetic knowledge of the disease and choosing the most appropriate treatment for the patients. One cutting-edge precision medicine technology and method of treating illnesses like cancer is genetic testing. Many studies have shown the effectiveness of tailored medicine in treating various cancers, such as melanoma, breast cancer, and lung cancer. The biggest challenge with gene categorization is how much manual labour is still needed. 
In order to advance personalised treatment, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) organised a competition that was approved by the NIPS 2017 Competition Track. MSKCC is the world's biggest and oldest private cancer research and treatment centre in New York.  This was then posted on Kaggle with all its data for the world to give it’s inputs with newer ideologies and innovative algorithms [1]. 
The project aims to create a machine-learning system that automatically categorises genetic variants using the MSKCC data set, a knowledge base that has been expertly annotated by top academics and oncologists who have personally marked up thousands of mutations as a baseline.
The objective of this project is to reduce and limit the manual efforts made by clinical pathologists in finding and cross-referencing the gene class types from the research literature, categorising clinically actionable genetic  
alterations is intended to reduce and minimise these human efforts. The evaluation of the Log Loss measure for various appropriate machine learning algorithms in order to identify the model with the lowest Log loss is the second major objective. And lastly to appropriately classify the mutated gene and advise clinicians on how to treat these patients.
